As a software or systems engineer, have you ever had the thought,
so why does this project have a project manager?
Or, do they really add value?
Or another way to word it is, what is the value of project management?
Well, there's a tremendous value, and let's discuss some examples.
It enables focus on the business goals of the project.
Sometimes the knowledge worker is so focused on developing
a new web API or MVC model for example,
they lose sight of the fact that we need to deliver the new product offering,
say in three weeks.
Also a project manager provides a focal point for responsibility and leadership.
Projects typically span multiple departments or organizations,
so who is in charge?
We'll talk about that more later.
PMs maximize the creative and innovative
capabilities of each subject matter expert.
You may have seen situations where the senior architect
happens to be a project manager too.
His or her time is stretched during PM work,
and may be compromising the technical architecture work as well.
PMs provide a platform for key information and visibility to project metrics,
which enable better monitoring, measuring,
and management decision making.
PMs can spotlight the financial implications earlier,
so you can avoid risky or poor project investments.
And lastly,
PMs ensure a project is in line with other projects
in a company's infrastructure.
Project managers need to have some awareness of other projects and
how they are linked or might conflict in order to avoid any issues
or leverage and improve their project.
So clearly you've seen many examples here why projects need project managers.
Is becoming a full-time or part-time project manager the right job for you?
You will need to have strong communication and people skills,
successful projects demand it.
In this course,
we will discuss many tools and techniques to help you in this area.
You will need to have good business acumen and a solid technical foundation.
Knowing the business, the people, and the technology are critical.
You probably already know technology quite well,
so focusing more on your professional growth on the business side,
and the interpersonal side of your job would be very good.
Again,
in this course we will discuss many tools and
techniques to help you in this area.
Also, have a decisive character to confidently and quickly arrive at results,
and be able to do this while not having all the necessary information at hand.
PMs, leaders, and senior management that are especially successful,
tend to be able to make good decisions without
knowing everything about a situation.
As engineers,
I would like to suggest that we are wired to want to
know everything before we can act.
You may need to change your approach to problem solving as you
evolve your set of skills to project management.
And are you okay with change coming at a pretty fast pace?
Well, you might be, since you are used to technology world,
and that's changing very rapidly.
So you will need the skills, and the personality,
to be able to adapt to changing business requirements and the
challenge of managing customer expectations,
and be okay and comfortable with both.
Lastly, if you have primarily been writing software,
or working as a systems engineer in your career,
you might not be cut out to be proficient at leading or managing projects.
But don't worry about that now, this course will give you the information, the tools, the techniques, and the guidance to help you improve those skills.